---
num: "h01"
desc: "HFJ 3,4: Primitives, References, Instance Variables, Methods"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-01-16 11:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2017-01-18 16:00:00.00-8:00
---

<b>When a homework assignment is due in lab</b> (i.e. discussion section), it is, technically, due at the start of your assigned section time.  However, as a courtesy, we'll allow you to turn it in during any lab section (so if you forget to bring it, but you can get it to us by the start of the last lab section of the day, that's fine.)

{% include no_staples_box.html %}

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read <span data-hfj="3"></span> (especially pages 59-62) and online reading notes.
* Read <span data-hfj="4"></span> and online reading notes.
    * If you don't have your book yet, buy it!  But in the meantime you can read this either at the UCSB library, or online.
    * Visit the course wiki at http://foo.cs.ucsb.edu/56wiki and you'll find the link to the online textbook.   
* As you read, also consult the online reading notes.   To find them, go to the online version of this homework, at {{ page.url }} and click the links.
* Then, do the problems below.

<ol markdown="1">

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}


<li> Based on your reading in <span data-hfj="3" ></span>:

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3.5em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) In Java, a variable can store a *primitive* or a *reference*.  Briefly: What's the difference?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) If I write `3.4`, is that of type `double`, or `float`?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) Declare `x` as a `double` and assign it the value 3.4 (as a `double`)

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) Declare `y` as a `float` and assign it the value 3.4 (as a `float`)

</li>

</ol>

</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:2.5em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) In C++, the name of a plain old array  of `Student` objects is not an object, but is rather a pointer to a `Student` (i.e. it is of type `Student *`.  What about in Java&mdash;is an array an object, yes or no?
<div class="pagebreak"></div>

</li>


<li markdown="1">
Variables that represent a primitive type (e.g. `boolean x;` or `int y;`) and  variables containing  object references (`String w;` or `Student z;`) have this in common&mdash;they are both composed of bits in memory.

But, as explained in <span data-hfj="3" ></span>, they differ in what the bits ''actually'' represent.   You won't get this one by just guessing&mdash;you really have to read the book.

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> 
(5 pts) What do the bits that represent `int y;` represent?

Assume that `y` is assigned the value 13

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) What do the bits that represent `String w;` represent?

Assume that `w` is assigned the value `"foo"`.

</li>
</ol>

</li>


<li markdown="1"> Based on your reading in <span data-hfj="3" ></span>, p. 59-62
  and <span data-hfj="4" ></span> p. 84:

 <ol>
  <li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 
  Suppose I have a class called `Student`.   
  How do I declare and allocate space for a plain old Java array called `students` that can hold 5 references to Student objects?
  </li>

  <li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 

 Java `for` loops look pretty much just like C++ `for` loops (see HFJ
 page 10 if you really need to check.)  Given that, assuming there is a
 default constructor `Student()` that you can call to create
 a new `Student` object, write a `for` loop that
 initializes all of the elements of the array `students`
 (from the previous problem) to be instances of the
 `Student`> class. 
  </li>

 </ol>
</li>


<li> Consider these questions about memory&mdash;answers are in <span data-hfj="3" ></span>

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1"> 
(5 pts) Does the amount of memory taken up by 
an object reference differ for different kinds of objects (say `String` vs. `ArrayList<String>`?)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (5 pts) Does the amount of memory
taken up by the object itself differ for different kinds of objects
(assuming the same JVM)? 
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Can the amount of memory
taking up for an object reference for a object particular type (say
`String`) differ from one JVM to another?
</li> 

</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> <span data-hfj="4"></span> discusses the difference between the `==` operator and the `.equals` method.    

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Under what circumstances should you use the `==` operator to compare two variables? 
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Under what circumstances should you use the `.equals` method to compare two variables? 
</li>

</ol>

</li>

</ol>
