---
num: "h02"
desc: "HFJ 5,6: Random, ArrayList, first look at the Java API"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-01-16 11:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2017-01-22 11:00:00.00-8:00
---

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read <span data-hfj="5"></span> and <span data-hfj="6"></span>, along with the online reading notes that go with those chapters. Then, do the problems below.
* Note that you may also need to look back at <span data-hfj="4"></span> (or even at earlier chapters) for some problems.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}


<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) Write a few lines of code that demonstrate how to take a integer value that is in a `String`, and convert it to an integer value in an `int` variable.  You can find an example of this in 
<span data-hfj="5" ></span>
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) (From <span data-hfj="5" />)  Assume that `n` is an `int` variable that has already been assigned some value greater than or equal to 1.    Write a few lines of Java code that declare a new `int` variable `x` and assign it a random integer between `0` and `n-1` (inclusive, uniformly distributed over all n possible values.)



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> 

(10 pts) (From <span data-hfj="5" />)  Proponents of Test Driven Developent (TDD) suggest you write your tests *before* you write your code.    Why?

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:18em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) From the online reading notes for <span data-hfj="5"></span>: TDD is a part of a larger movement called eXtreme Programming (XP) that led to an even larger movement called Agile, that includes many other programming practices.  Identify two of those other than TDD.  (By *identify*, I mean that to earn full credit, you need to *both* name, *and* briefly explain (1 sentence) each of these two other practices.   There are far more than just two, but any two that are legitimately core to Agile are acceptable.)
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Frequently asked "job interview" question that comes from somewhere in  <span data-hfj="4"></span> or <span data-hfj="5"></span>: briefly explain: part of Object-Oriented Programming is "encapsulation".  What is "encapsulation"?  
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> 

Review the difference between plain old java arrays (as in <span data-hfj="4"></span>)
and the `ArrayList<T>` type (as in <span data-hfj="6"></span>).  
Assume that a class called `Student` exists.

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) Write a line of java that makes a  plain old Java array (<span data-hfj="4"></span> style) of `Student` references of size 5.  (Don't allocate the `Student` objects, just the array of references, initially null).    
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) Now, write a line of java that makes an `ArrayList<Student>` of `Student` references (<span data-hfj="6"></span> style).   Capacity is unimportant---choose 5, or take the default, whatever you like.   (Don't allocate the `Student` objects, just the `ArrayList<Student>`, initially empty). 
</li>


</ol>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) From <span data-hfj="5"></span>: Java 1.5 introduced a new (to Java) kind of for loop sometimes called a "foreach" loop (even though foreach is not a keyword in Java)&mdash;your textbook calls it the "enhanced for loop".  HFJ provides an overview of this kind of loop on p. 105 and 116.   Write a few lines of code that declare an array of five integers, initializing them to the first five prime numbers (you can use a literal array initializer here&mdash;you don't need to write code to compute the prime numbers), and then write a foreach type loop that iterates through that array printing out the values, one on each line.
</li>


</ol>

