---
num: "h03"
desc: "Perkovic 2.4 (Objects and Classes), 2.5 (Python Standard Libraries)"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-01-23 14:00
due: 2018-01-30 14:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please read {{page.desc}}.  Then complete these problems and turn in your completed homework in lecture on the due date.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li markdown="1">  As discussed in Section&nbsp;2.4, the `type()` function returns the type of a Python value.
When you pass a variable such as `x`, `type(x)` returns the type of the value that the variable `x` currently refers to.

Assume that the following assignment statement has been executed:

```
schools=["UCSB","Stanford","UCSD","Cal Poly"]
```

What will each of the expressions below evaluate to?  As a reminder, strictly speaking, Python will print types in the format `<class 'int'>`, `<class 'float'>`, `<class 'str'>`, etc. so *please use exactly that format* for full credit.
<style>
div.bigger table * td { padding: 0.7em 3pt 0.7em 3pt; }
span.wide { padding: 0pt 4em 0pt 4em; }
</style>

<div class="bigger" markdown="1">

| Points  | Expression  | <span class="wide">Result</span> | Points  | Expression  | <span class="wide">Result</span> |
|---------|--------------|--|---------|-------------------|--|
| (4 pts) | `type(3)`    |  | (4 pts) | `type(1+2.5)`     |  |
| (4 pts) | `type('3')`  |  | (4 pts) | `type(2 * "3")`   |  |
| (4 pts) | `type("3.5")`|  | (4 pts) | `type((3,3))`     |  |
| (4 pts) | `type(3.5)`  |  | (4 pts) | `type(schools)`   |  |
| (4 pts) | `type([3,5])`|  | (4 pts) | `type(schools[0])`|  |

</div>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Assume that `cases` is the name of a variable with a `float` value that you want to convert to an integer value. Write a Python expression that converts `cases` to an integer (throwing away any fractional part).
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Assume that `courseNum` is an integer that represents the numeric part of a course number (e.g. 3, 8, 130, 16, 24). Write a Python expression that converts `courseNum` to an string (i.e. `<class 'str'>` in Python)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) If you want to check whether x is greater than 10, or y is greater than 5, you can write the Python expression

```python
(x > 10) or (y > 5)
```

If `x` has the value `20`, and `y` has the value `4`, this evaluates to `True`.

But what if we accidentally wrote it as:

```python
(x > 10) + (y > 5)
```

What would this expression evaluate to, assuming the same values for `x` and `y`)?  (The answer requires you to read the section carefully, and then apply what you have learned. I suggest you try that first before trying it at the Python command line).

</li>

<li>Both Sections 2.4 and 2.5 mention a type of function that is called a <em>constructor</em>.

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) In general, what do constructors do?  (Don't give an answer that is specific, for instance, to only the constructor for the `int` data type).

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) <em>Before</em> using the constructor for a `Fraction` object, a particular line of Python code must be written.  What is that line of code?  (Be very careful about spelling and upper vs. lower case.)

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Assuming that line of code has been typed (the one mentioned in the previous question), how do you create a `Fraction` object that holds the fraction $$\frac{4}{5}$$ (i.e., "four&nbsp;fifths"), and makes the variable `ratio` refer to that object?

</li>


</ol>

</li>

</ol>
