---
num: "h04"
desc: "Perkovic 3.1 (Python Programs), 3.2 (Execution Control Structures)"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-01-30 14:00
due: 2018-02-06 14:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please read {{page.desc}}. Then complete these problems and turn in your completed homework in lecture on the due date.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Section 3.1 discusses a feature of IDLE called "restarting the shell". What does the book say happens when you restart the shell?
</li>




<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Section 3.1 also discusses the `input()` function,
which is used to get input from the user. It indicates that the result
of the `input()` function always comes back as a particular data type,
no matter what the user types in. What is this data type?


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1"> Section 3.2 discusses the fact that you can <em>nest</em> control structures in Python.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom: 6em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What does it mean to <em>nest</em> control structures in Python?

(Note: you won't find the answer spelled out in the text.  It is implied, but not clearly explained.  So you'll have to do some thinking to figure out how to answer.  That's on purpose.)
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What can you see in the Python code (or do you have to write in your own Python code) to indicate that something is "nested"?  (This is also in the text, but implied rather than stated.)
</li>
</ol>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>


<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts)
Section 3.2 discusses iteration, which means doing things over and over again,
in a loop.  As we will learn, there is more than one kind of loop in Python,
but there is a particular kind of loop discussed in Section 3.2 that allows us to process each character in a string, or each item in a list, one at a time.

What is the Python word that starts that kind of loop? 


</li>



<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:4em;"> (10 pts) On p. 56-57, the textbook suggests using the `eval()` function
to convert the result of `input()` from the user if it going to be used
as something other than a string (e.g. as a number, list, etc.)

THIS IS A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS HABIT TO GET INTO.  DON'T DO IT.

(We'll discuss this in more detail in lecture, but the short version
is: this is the kind of habit that leaves security vulnerabilities
open for hackers.    There isn't any real danger in an intro course,
because the software you write won't be run by anyone except you and your
TA, but in general, this is VERY bad habit to get into.)

So what can we do instead?  Well, you actually already saw one option&mdash;a technique that was discussed in Section 2.4.   Suppose we have this Python
statement:

<div style="width:65%" markdown="1">
```
ageAsString = input('Please enter your age in years: ')
```
</div>

Using techniques from Section 2.4, but NOT using `eval`, what line
of Python code can you write to convert
the value `ageAsString` into an `int` value?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 0.1em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) Read about the `if` and `else` statements in Section 3.2, including what happens when the various programs in Section 3.2 are run.

(If you want to run them yourself to see what happens, I strongly encourage that!  And: it is ok to type them in and run them, even including the `eval` function calls; I don't want to scare you too much about that. The  `eval` function is only risky when someone you don't trust is putting input into your code, e.g. when you are making a app that the general public will use.)

Once you think you understand how `if` and `else` works, consider this code, which is incomplete.   Add the code that is needed so that if the user puts in something other than `CA` for the state, the code will print "Out of State Tuition".   Be sure to indent your code properly, and include all needed punctuation.

<div style="font-size:144%" markdown="1">
```
homeState = input("Please enter your state: ")

if homeState=="CA":
  print("In State Tuition")




```
</div>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (10 pts) Section 3.2 discusses how to use the `range` function with a loop so that you can cause a variable to take on a sequence of values&mdash;the sample code illustrates this by printing those values. (Later we'll do other things with those sequences of values such as adding them, or multiplying them, or using them to index into a list or string, or to draw things.)

<div style="border: 3px solid black; width:10em; float:right; padding: 0.2em; margin:0.3em;" markdown="1">
```
3
6
9
12
```
</div>

In the space below, write a few lines of Python that uses a loop with the `range` function to print the values shown in the box at right. (Your answer must use a loop with `range` to get credit.)
</li>
</ol>

<div style="clear:both;">
</div>
