---
num: "h05"
desc: "HFJ 12: Intro to Java GUIs"
ready: false
assigned: 2018-01-18 11:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2018-01-25 16:00:00.00-8:00
---

*Reading Assignment:* Read <span data-hfj="12"></span> along with the online reading notes that go with those chapters. Then, do the problems below.   Refer back to previous chapters as needed.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) What is the name of the Java class for an object that represents a window on the screen?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(10 pts) What are two examples of Java classes that are considered "widgets"?

</li>

<li> What is the "job" of each of these objects in terms of handling an event in Java GUI programming?

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) listener object  (the one that `implements ActionListener`)

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) event source object

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) `ActionEvent` object

</li>

</ol>

<div class="pagebreak" />

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) The author explains that each specific instance of an inner class instance has a "special bond" with a specific instance of an outer class instance.'   

Explain what this author means by this "special bond".  (What I'm looking for is: what does the special bond allow the the inner class instance to do that other objects lacking this bond ''cannot'' do?)

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) Briefly explain: how does  this "Special Bond" property of inner class objects make them particularly useful for implementing an ActionListener for a Widget? 



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">

(10 pts) The text says: "If you want to put your own graphics on the screen, your best 
bet is to make your own paintable widget."    The book recommends that to do this, you should: (fill in the blanks): 

<div style="font-family: Arial Narrow, sans-serif;">
<table style="margin-top:3em; width:100%;">
<tr>
<td style="text-align:right; width:10%">Make a </td><td style="border-bottom: 1px solid black; width:25%;">&nbsp;</td>
<td style="text-align:center; width:40%;">of <code>JPanel</code>, and override one method:</td><td style="border-bottom: 1px solid black; width:25%; text-align:left;">&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>

</li>

<li> Now, several questions about this "mysterious method", i.e. the answer to the 2nd blank in the previous question. (The method you override.)

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) The book says that you write code to go inside this mysterious method when you override it.  What kind of code do you write inside this mystery method?  (Note: pp. 363-368 have lots of examples.)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) The book says that you never call this mysterious method yourself&mdash;and the reason is that the parameter to that method is something you don't have direct access to.   What kind of `Object` that is the parameter to the mysterious method, that the System has access to, but you as a programmer don't?



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) Though you can't call the mysterious method directly, there is a method that you *can* call that *asks* the system to call that method for you.  What is the name of this method that you *can* call?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">  

(10 pts) Inside this mysterious method, one often finds this mysterious line of code. Explain WHAT this line of code is doing, and more importantly, why that may be needed or helpful (must explain *both* **what** it does, and **why** that is needed/helpful for full credit.)

```java
 Graphics2D g2d = (Graphics2D) g;
```

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">  
(10 pts) Write the code for a `paintComponent` method that fills a square of a random color on the screen, with side length 100, and CENTERED at 50,200.  (Hint: You'll need to look up the parameters to `fillRect` in the Java API online.) 
</li>


</ol>
