---
num: "h06"
desc: "HFJ 12, 13: More on GUIs"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-01-11 11:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2017-01-22 23:55:00.00-8:00
last_before: "Midterm E01"
---

*Reading Assignment:* Review <span data-hfj="12"></span> and Read <span data-hfj="13"></span> along with the online reading notes that go with those chapters. Then, do the problems below.   Refer back to previous chapters as needed.

As you work through the exercises below, you might also need to consult the Javadoc for the Swing classes: <http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/>

During S11, the CS56 students were assigned to create homework questions from Chapter 13.  All questions (except 1&nbsp;and&nbsp;2) on this  assignment are based on questions they came up with.  Later in the course, you may have an opportunity to do the same thing with one or more of the chapters in the book this quarter.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">

(10 pts) Briefly explain one way to do animation (as explained in Chapter 12).  Include a brief explanation of what you have to do to avoid "smearing".

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">

(10 pts) (Thanks to Mark O.) A student makes a JFrame with the code below. When the student runs the program, no GUI comes up.  What line of code is missing?

```java
 JFrame frame = new JFrame();
 frame.setSize(400, 400);
```

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">

(10 pts) (Thanks to Steven L.)   Briefly describe the *most significant* difference between a `JFrame` and `JPanel`.  (Note: the words most signficant are important here.   Focus on the fundamentals: what the objects are an abstraction of?  Don't focus on superficial differences in the API.)

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1">
(Thanks to Alex M.) Suppose you want to create a spot for a long piece of text that the user could possibly scroll through (e.g. a long legal thing like your "LICENSE AGREEMENT" or "TERMS OF USE")

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) Would you use a  `JTextField` or a `JTextArea`? Explain why.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) To get the scrolling to work, what additional widgets would you need?


</li>
</ol>


</li>

<li> (Thanks to Ethan V.) Suppose we want to create a new check box with the label "Show Instructions".
<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) What code would you write to make a new check box with the label <br> `Show Instructions` (i.e. declare the variable and invoke the constructor).
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts)  Write code to "select" the check box you declared in part a.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts)  Still with the check box declared in part a, write some code that will print a message on `System.out` like this:

<ul markdown="1">
  <li style="list-style-type:circle;"> print `The Box is checked!` if the box is checked </li>
  <li style="list-style-type:circle;"> print `The Box is not checked!` if the box is unchecked.</li>
</ul>

</li>

</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (Thanks to Pedro L. and Ted R.)  Read about the Border Layout Manager in Chapter 13, including all of the fine print on all of the pages!  Note that there are two cases for the Border Layout Manager: the normal case and the special case when pack() is used&mdash;be sure you understand both.   Then answer these questions:

<ol>

<li markdown="1">
(5 pts) In the normal case, which regions get their preferred *width*? 
</li>

<li markdown="1">
(5 pts) In the normal case, which regions get their preferred *height*? 
</li>

<li markdown="1"> 
(5 pts) In the normal case, how are the dimensions of the center component determined?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> 
(5 pts) The special case is when the `pack()` method is used.     Describe what happens when the `pack()` method is used.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) Find the place in Chapter 13 where there is  some sample code that uses the `pack()` method (they might be in the part marked "optional"&mdash;it isn't "optional" for this course.)  Read through that code and the accompanying descriptions.   Then, briefly describe why the pack method is needed in that particular circumstance.  That is, why did the developer use the `pack()` method, as 
opposed to *not* using the `pack()` method?
</li>

</ol>

</li>

</ol>

