---
num: "h07"
desc: "Serialization (HFJ 14)"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-10-24 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-10-30 17:00:00.00-7:00
---

NOTE: This assignment is due by electronic upload to Gradescope.

See this link for additional information: <http://ucsb-cs56-f17.github.io/static/gradescope.pdf>

This homework concerns <span data-hfj="14">HFJ Chapter 14</span>.
Please read that chapter, and then answer these questions.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) Serialization is all about
saving the "state" of an object.   Obviously, this doesn't mean "California" vs. "Nevada" or "Arizona".   But explaining what it *does* mean can be a bit
tricky.   That makes it a good "job interview question".   Explain what
it means to "save the state of an object" in Java.    For full credit, your
answer should address some of the subtle issues referred to in the text.

</li>



<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) What, according to our textbook authors, is "the beauty of buffers"?

<b>Explain in your own words</b>&mdash;don't just copy text down from the book.  The book uses an analogy of a shopping cart, so "in your own words" means, among other things, you must <b>not</b> use that analogy.  If you want to use an analogy, come up with your <em>own, different analogy.</em>.


</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1" > The book describes a technique known as "chaining" in the context of talking about Java IO Streams.  Give an example of some code from the book that demonstrates this technique, and more importantly <em>explain in your own words</em> what the chaining of the two or kinds kinds of stream accomplishes.

<ul>
 <li> (5 pts) for a correct example
 </li>
 <li> (10 pts) for a correct explanation of the example
 </li>
</ul>
<div class="pagebreak"></div>
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> The textbook mentions two options for saving the state of an object in some place external to a running Java program: (1) the built-in Java serialization technique (`java.io.Serializable` interface) (2) writing to a plain text file.

In fact, there are many options for serializing an object, including SQL databases such as (MySQL, Postgres, etc.), no-SQL databases (such as MongoDB).   A popular serialization format is JSON (JavaScript Object Notation), which despite having "JavaScript" in the name, is actually a format that can be used by many programming languages (including JavaScript, but also Java, Ruby, and Python.)
We'll discuss these in lecture, since they aren't covered in the book.

But for now, to establish a basis for discussing these: tell me what the book says about the pros/cons of the two techniques described.

  <ol>
  <li  style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) What is an advantage of Java's built-in serialization over writing to plain text files?
  </li>
    <li  style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) What is an advantage of plain text files over Java's built-in serialization&mdash;or alteratively, a situation where plain text files would be more appropriate or useful than Java's built-in serialization?
    </li>

  </ol>
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Suppose a certain
object implements the `Serializable` interface.  There is some part of
the object that should NOT be saved when serializing the object. How
do you indicate this in your code?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:12em;"> (10 pts) For this question, consider
the reading in HFJ about serialization.

Your friend B. C. Dull says:

"I don't get why object serialization is such a big deal. You have a
pointer to each object, and you know how many bytes it takes up in
memory, and you know the objects type. Just write those bytes to a
file, along with a few extra bytes indicating the type—problem
solved. Then you read those bits back in and restore the
objects. What's the big deal".  You however, see more deeply into the
situation, and say:

"Well, B.C., it isn't quite that simple. You are forgetting a few
subtle issues—things you should realize from your previous study of
how data structures work—things you should have learned in CS16 and
CS24. Even though those were C/C++ courses, the same problems are
going to arise in Java."  B.C. says: "I don't see what you are getting
at. Can you explain it to me?"

What do you say to B.C. to help him/her realize why Object
Serialization is more subtle than just writing out all the bits
exactly as they are, and reading them back in exactly as they are?

HINT: Think about things like linked lists, pointers, and references,
and how they are implemented in both C++ and Java.

</li>

</ol>

<div style="display:none">
http://UCSB-CS56-F16.github.io/hwk/h12
</div>




