---
num: "h08"
desc: "Perkovic 5.1 (Decision Control and the if Statememt), 5.2 (for Loop and Iteration Patterns)"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-02-13 14:00
due: 2018-02-20 14:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please read {{page.desc}}. Then complete these problems and turn in your completed homework in lecture on the due date.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}


<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1"> (40 pts) p. 129 shows a function definition for a multi-way if/else that
prints a message depending on the temperature.

Rewrite this function so that instead of printing a message, it returns a letter grade (e.g. `return 'A'` instead of `print('It is hot')` based on the integer parameter.  If the grade is 90 or above, return an 'A'.  If it is 60 or higher, but less than 90, return a 'C', and if it is less than 60, return an 'F'.  (In real life, there would be Bs and Ds, but this is just an
exercise.)

<b>NOTE:</b> Be careful about the fact that in an `if`/`elif`/`else`, some of the relationships are implicit.  You cannot get to the `elif` unless the condition on the first `if` is false.  So you should not check for that a second time.     (To be more clear: the `elif` on p. 129 says: `elif t > 32:` rather than `if t <= 86 and t > 32`.    The `t<=86` part is unnecessary, because we would never even get to the `elif` unless `t<=86` were true.  Make sure you keep this in mind as you write your code for this problem.   Points may be deducted if you do redundant checks, even if the code "works".)


<div class="pagebreak">
</div>
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1"> For the Python code in the left box, write the output in the right box

<style>
td.answer_box { width: 20em; height: 12em;}
</style>

<table>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">

(10 pts)

```
colors = ["red","green","blue"]
for c in colors:
   print(c)
```

</td>
<td class="answer_box">
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">

(10 pts)

```
fruits = ["apple","banana","pear","grape"]
for i in range(4):
   print(i,fruits[i],sep=",")
```

</td>
<td class="answer_box">
</td>
</tr>


</table>

</li>





<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) p. 134-136 discusses the "Accumulator Pattern", which is a very important topic in this course; one of the most important for you to master.  So please read those two pages several times and try to understand every detail.    The figure at the top of p. 135 shows the various stages of execution for the code on p. 134.

The code `mySum = mySum + num` takes the old value of `mySum`, adds `num` to it, and stores the result back in `mySum`.

That code is done inside a `for` loop, `for num in myList`, after setting `mySum` initially to zero.

The final value for `mySum` is `20`.  What does that number `20` represent in this case?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) On p. 135, we see the intermediate values for mySum, namely `3`, `5`, `12,` `11,` and `10`.   Try to understand where those values come from as the loop progresses.

Then, imagine the same loop were executed, but with the first line of code being `numList=[9, 3, 1, 1, 7]`  
(instead of `numList=[3, 2, 7, -1, 9]`.)   What would the successive intermediate values of `mySum` be in that case?  List them in the space below.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) On page 135-136, the textbook discusses accumulating a product instead of a sum.   The accumulator variable is called `myProd` this time.  In the version of the code that works properly, what is `myProd` initialized to, and why?
</li>


</ol>