---
num: "h10"
desc: "Packages and JAR files (HFJ 17,pp. 581–595)"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-10-31 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-11-02 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

Reading Assignment: <span data-hfj="17">HFJ Chapter 17</span>, ONLY pages 581 through 595.   The material from p.596 to p.601 about *Java Web Start (JWS)* is not very important anymore (this technology really didn't catch on).

Similarly, we are not going to cover the material in Chapter 18, since there are better sources for learning about distributed computing in Java than this chapter.    Pages 581 through 595 conclude our first pass through the material in the Head First Java Book; the next assignment starts our work in Head First Design Patterns.

We may also revisit chapters in HFJ we've already read through at least once to dig into some topics in more detail.

Finally: note that in Chapter 17, the name of the `classes` directory and the name of the `source` directory are only examples.    In this assignment, we are calling those directories `build` and `src`, which is a more common name for them.  

This is done not to confuse you, but to make sure you are paying attention and trying to understand the material.

You'll need to be able to switch easily between hand compiling, using `ant`, and using `maven` and `gradle` if you want to extend your Java skills to web apps and Android apps (which is where many of the Java jobs are.)  And each of those uses slightly different naming conventions for the directory that stores the `.java` and the `.class` files.     So we might as well start practicing that now.

Oh: and in case you think that the IDE is just going to take care of all of this for you: good luck with that.   That works for a while&mdash;right up to the point where it doesn't.  And at that point, you need to be able to look under the hood and figure things out without help from the IDE.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts)
What common naming convention is used to prevent package name conflicts (collisions)?
</li>

<li  style="margin-bottom: 1em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts)
If the file `foo.jar` is an executable `.jar` file, how do you run it at the command line?


<div class="pagebreak"></div>

</li>

<li  style="margin-bottom: 1em;" markdown="1"> 
Suppose a java class `Bar` is in the package `edu.ucsb.cs56.foo`, and that your entire project
lives in a directory called `~/cs56/Fum`.  (Perhaps `Fum` is a regular directory, or perhaps its the
name of a Github repo that you cloned, but either way, its the directory in which your project lives.)

Further, suppose that you are keeping your source files under `~/cs56/Fum/src`, and your `.class` files 
under `~/cs56/Fum/build`.


<ol>

<li  style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) What should be the full path, starting from `~`, that of the `.java` source file for class `Bar`?
</li>

<li  style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) What line of Java code must appear first, before any import statements in that source file?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) Suppose you wanted to compile without `ant`, using the techniques described in Chapter 17.   Write down  the full `cd` command you would use to get into the proper
directory, and then the full `javac` command you would use to compile the `Bar` class.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) Give the full filename starting from `~` to the resulting `.class` file.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) Part of creating an executable jar is creating a manifest file.  Suppose you want to create an executable jar that would run the `Bar` class from package `edu.ucsb.cs56.foo`, with all the same assumptions as above.  What would the  filename of your manifest file be, and in which directory should you put it?
</li>

<li   style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) What would the contents of the manifest file be?
</li>

<li  style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) Assuming you did all of the above, what directory should you be in, and what command you should you type to create a file  `~/cs56/Fum/fum.jar` that is a an executable jar that would run the `Bar` class from package `edu.ucsb.cs56.foo`?
</li>

</ol>

</li>

</ol>

<div style="display:none;"> https://UCSB-CS56-F16.github.io/hwk/h10</div>
