---
num: "h13"
desc: "The Decorator Pattern (HFDP 3)"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-11-01 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-11-08 17:00:00.00-8:00
---

This homework, and the one that follows, both concern <span data-hfdp="3">HFDP Chapter 3</span>.
Please read that chapter, and then answer the questions on this homework, and the next one.

Please also read this short blog post by Robert C. Martin (Uncle Bob), author of the popular book "Clean Code", and "Clean Coder".  I'll ask a question about this article on a future homework assignment, but it will also help to read it before you do this assignment.

* <https://8thlight.com/blog/uncle-bob/2014/05/12/TheOpenClosedPrinciple.html>


<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">

In Chapter 3, the Open/Closed principle is presented in the context of
the Decorator pattern.  
<ol>
<li> (10 pts) Fill in the two blanks to result in the
statement of this principle.

<p style="margin-top:2em; font-size: 120%;">
Open for ______________________________________  closed for __________________________________.
</p>
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:2em;">(20 pts) Ok, that was the easy part; you just had to find the words in the chapter.  Now, the harder part: explain what this means in your own words.  "In your own words" means, don't just write down words for the book.   Read the book, then put the book down, and write what you've learned as if you were explaining it to someone.

</li>
</ol>
<div class="pagebreak"></div>
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:15em;"> (20 pts) (You may want to skim through HFJ Chapter 14 before answering this question.) The standard Java library classes that
implement input and output streams use the Decorator pattern.  Describe how the Decorator pattern is used here, and what benefits it provides. 
</li>



<li style="margin-bottom:1em;"> The decorator pattern features both
composition and inheritance. 

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:16em;"> (20 pts) How is composition used in the Decorator pattern?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:16em;"> (20 pts) How is inheritance used in
the Decorator pattern?  (Note: there is a particular purpose for which
inheritance is used in the Decorator pattern.   The book describes this very specifically.)
</li>

</ol>

</li>




</ol>

<div style="display:none">
http://UCSB-CS56-F16.github.io/hwk/h13
</div>




